---
type: posts
title:  "Labtops - Repurposing Old Hardware"
date: 2025-06-05 03:02:20 +0000
categories:
  - updates
tags: 
  - homelab
  - hardware
---

I started homelabbing with Proxmox on my desktop PC — which I had built and upgraded since 2014. Recently, I wanted to find a way to repurpose some of the other hardware I have laying around to add to my compute and memory capacity, without the need for buying new hardware. Over the years, I've purchased many laptops — for gaming and for work/school — and while I've given many of them as gifts or otherwise kept them in the family, there are still a great many more which have just been collecting dust.

## The "Labtops" 

The old laptops I have to work with are:

- Early 2015 11" MacBook Air (MacBookAir7,1)
- Mid-2014 13" MacBook Pro (MacBookPro11,1)
- Lenovo IdeaPad P400 Touch
- Lenovo Y40-80
- Lenovo IdeaPad Y700

These are all laptops which I had either purchased or received as hand-me-downs throughout the years, and have been collecting dust while I've upgraded my daily driver over the last 15 years or so. However, as I've found they are still plenty powerful and snappy when not bloated with the unnecessary background tasks of most modern desktop operating systems, so they are still perfectly serviceable as linux machines.

The "Labtop" setup is still a work in progress, and is currently not *ideal*, but it makes for a good testing ground that I can work with.

## What Works

These old laptops are certainly not boasting the most powerful hardware. Aside from the Y700 — which has an i7-6700HQ, a GTX 960m GPU, and 16GB of memory — these laptops are all running 3rd or 4th generation Intel CPUs with 2-4 cores (4-8 logical CPUs) and 8GB of memory.

However, the great thing about modern software and infrastructure is the ability to distribute compute and storage resources.

### Linux (Ubuntu Desktop)

Call it a sin, but I'd like these Laptops to still function as laptops — so I'm not putting server operating systems on these just yet. The great thing about Linux desktop shells like GNOME, though, is that they really don't use much if any compute/memory when not actively logged in. When not actively being used for desktop workloads, these

### Kubernetes


### Docker



## What Needs Improvement

There are several areas of concern which need to be addressed in this setup. It will certainly work in the short-termSome areas of concern I'm looking to address are

### Batteries
Laptops this old are not designed to run off a charger at all times.

### Networking
These Laptops are all currently networking via WiFi on my home WAP, which can cause unnecessary congestion and is absolutely inadvisable for any serious workload or distributed system. 

Of particular interest is that the P400 laptop only supports 802.11b/g/n, with a maximum transfer rate of 150 Mbps and restricted to the 2.4 GHz band. Worse yet is that the wired network interface on this laptop has a maximum throughput of 100 Mbps:

```terminal
❯ ethtool enp1s0
Settings for enp1s0:
	...
	Supported link modes:   10baseT/Half 10baseT/Full
	                        100baseT/Half 100baseT/Full
  ...
```


